Our next protocol is the stall. Once a man was lucky enough and he had trained, he would
have a stall of his own. The stall was part of what they called pillar and stall. The
man would take coal from the stall but leave a pillar. Usually a man's stall would be up
to 10 metres wide and the man would work that on his own or with a butty and get coal. When
the collier had got four foot of coal, that is four foot in by ten foot wide by four foot
high, he would then stop because he would have to support the area. Now he worked possibly four foot
of coal but he needed seven foot of room in his roadway so that the horse could get in with a
drum to take away his coal. So his next move would be to drill and fire the top and you see in front
of you a hole in the top where the guy has made a start. You would drill a series of holes, you
would then fire it down to the floor and the stones then would be packed as you see them to the left
and right to support the roof in the waste area. Depending on how much coal he got would
decide his wages. The man would only be paid for the coal that he cut and he would only be paid
for the large coal that he cut. Small coal didn't count, small coal was shoved into the gob or the
waste area and he was only paid for the large. He was also expected to erect his own supports,
he would be expected to lay his own rails.